- # Nature of Intelligence
  collapsed:: true
	- In the land where [intelligence is king]([[Intelligence Revolution]]) and ideas are currency, ADHD truly is a superpower.
	  id:: 6442a334-c7c5-4c9a-a374-5e9f0d6cbb85
	- Intelligence is rooted in [[Creativity]].
	  id:: 643dec89-badf-4754-ab09-93d0d11cbf77
		- It is less concerned with knowledge and more concerned with the ability to transform knowledge into understanding https://theifactory.com/wp-content/uploads/2019/01/Data-Wisdom.jpg
		- GPT-4 knows...everything (or at least it seems like), yet we aren't calling it a superintelligence (not yet anyway).
- The future is developer-focused tools.
  collapsed:: true
	- Logseq vs Obsidian.
	  id:: 643d9942-e732-49fb-b55a-b1eadb77786e
	  collapsed:: true
		- Logseq embraces the digital instead of relying on note paper metaphors.
		- Networked thinking is an emergent property of knowledge management.
- emergent behaviors, creativity. they are all related.
  collapsed:: true
	- connecting complex networks of neurons together yields intelligence/consciousness as emergent.
	- connecting ideas together in a graph database like this will yield creativity.
		- enough creativity and complex connections of ideas yields other emergent properties?
- In order for humanity to be safe from AI, we as a whole need to get smarter. #[[Intelligence Revolution]]
  id:: 643da60a-1238-4d8e-b8f2-0e1ab4c742a2
	- The best way to foster intelligence is by mixing new and diverse ideas together.
		- A computer can do this way faster than any human.
			- A computer can be more creative than a human already, if it had access to long-term memory.
				- How do we store and access long-term memory?
					- For humans, we can accomplish it with a Networked Thought Database.
- [[Creativity]] is the process of connecting ideas and emotions together in unexpected ways.
  id:: 643db604-7bf2-4ae5-8a51-3220f5b2c384