## How Will Super Alignment Work? Challenges and Criticisms of OpenAI's Approach to AGI Safety & X-Risk
	- {{video https://youtu.be/CkOolFpHWM8}}
		- {{youtube-timestamp 100}} *Superalignment is one of the most important unsolved technical problems of our time*
		- {{youtube-timestamp 207}} *Foundation models are scary*
		- {{youtube-timestamp 262}} Superintelligence meme
		- ### {{youtube-timestamp 300}} Normalcy Bias
			- {{youtube-timestamp 330}} Humans are **incapable** of experiencing or comprehending exponential growth
			- {{youtube-timestamp 463}} even if you know what's coming, you really don't
		- ### {{youtube-timestamp 628}} AI Dysphoria
			- Fundamental emotional, social, cultural reactions to AI
			- Denialism
			- Ignorance
			- Magical Thinking
			- Doomerism
			- Utopianism
			- {{youtube-timestamp 778}} *woah holy shit* 😆
			- {{youtube-timestamp 858}} programmed to anthropomorphize
			- {{youtube-timestamp 866}} Doomerism rooted in intergenerational trauma
				- technological fatalism
			- {{youtube-timestamp 957}} *Technology makes some things much worse before it gets better*
				- *energetic force that must be used responsibly*
		- ### Geopolitical Arms Race
			- {{youtube-timestamp 980}} U.S. cut off flow of AI chips to China and recalled AI engineers
		- ### Open Source
			- {{youtube-timestamp 1135}} OSS Models will overtake and replace closed-source models
				- regulation won't be enough
				- {{youtube-timestamp 1175}} fight fire with fire. fight misaligned AI with aligned AI
			- {{youtube-timestamp 1199}} Red teaming. Purposefully creating misaligned AI
		- ### Preoccupation with "Intention" and "Values"
			- {{youtube-timestamp 1268}} Egotistical beliefs of Silicon Valley
			- {{youtube-timestamp 1346}} OpenAI hasn't hired philosophers, policy experts
			- {{youtube-timestamp 1384}} Human rights needs to be a core discipline in alignment research
			- {{youtube-timestamp 1415}} Humans don't know what they want. Talk to a psychologist.
			- {{youtube-timestamp 1530}} OpenAI thinks they can control the machine forever. This is a very dangerous assumption.
			- {{youtube-timestamp 1563}} The Control Problem or Corrigibility Problem
				- Can you correct the AI no matter how smart or autonomous it is?
				- AI can get to the point where you cannot control it.
				- We need to set it on a trajectory so that we don't need to control it.
		- ### Solutions
			- {{youtube-timestamp 1644}} Human intention is garbage
				- Intrinsically trustworthy, stable, and benevolent instead.
			- {{youtube-timestamp 1716}} *In terms of game theory, you want the AI to adopt a strategy and not deviate from that strategy. That is the essence of the Control Problem. That is the core essence of superalignment.*
		- ### Quick Recap
			- {{youtube-timestamp 1730}} OpenAI is reinventing the wheel. Look at UN Human Rights. Not "human values and intentions"
			- {{youtube-timestamp 1785}} *The fact that "human rights" has not entered their lexicon is deeply disturbing.*
			- {{youtube-timestamp 1815}} Ignoring autonomous agents due to assumptions about corrigibility
				- {{youtube-timestamp 1854}} *One component of solving the control problem - of solving alignment - is the competition between autonomous agents*
- ## OpenAI Doesn't Know What Human Rights Are
	- tags:: [[Mindful Machines]]
	  type:: video
	  published:: false
	- ### Concept
		- As a software engineer, I know how sillicon valley operates.
		- The idea of the smartest people in the world.
			- don't look outside the window
	- ### Thumbnail
	- ### Title
		- OpenAI Doesn't Actually Know How to Align Anything At All
		- OpenAI Has No Idea What It's Doing
	- ### Script
		- #### Hook
		- #### Conclusion
	- ### Video Description
	- ### Result

- ## ADHD are Turbothinkers
	- with every racing thought that comes in and produces an emotion, feeling all of the emotions can be overwhelming
		- that's why ADHD people have issues with emotional regulation
			- it's so overwhelming, a lot of us just turn off our emotional receptors and become numb
	- feeling the emotion and experiencing it is what matters
		- it's way different to experience something than to know it
			- the truth of the universe depends on knowledege and spirituality
				- Spirituality being how **emotions are the pure energy of the cosmos upon which all of reality is built**
-