- - {{video https://youtu.be/RIRHq3d7Uuo}}
	- dave groll. perception effects reality. syntehesia. shape of songs.
	- universe isn't locally real. nobel prize this year.
	- shallow data structure. plank length. space-time breaks down. short-changed.
		- space-time breaks down "early" when studying small things.
		- we only perceive 0.0035% of electromagnetic spectrum
		- can't imagine 5 dimensions
		- it's the finger pointing at the moon. not the moon itself.
	- no theory of everything. wrong abstractions. let go of space-time.
	- chunking (in context of chess). pattern recognition machines we are.
	- screen of a rubix cube rotating.
		- trying to mathmatecially predict how the pixels change on the screen. doesn't work.
			- let go of the screen.
				- there is a unified geometric object "behind" the screen
				- it makes it way easier to understand and predict what is happening
	- monoliths sitting outside of space-time
		- we know it is pregnant with meaning. we don't know what it's pointing at
		- wtf is a amplituhedron?
			- geometric shape in multiple dimensions up to infinity
			- new stuff. ground-breaking.
			- one of the first structures we've found outside of space-time
		- cosmological polytope
			- another shape beyond the amplituhedron
		- goes beyond quantum mechanics but codes for it in the context of space-time
		- who ordered it and why?
	- THE DRIVE TO DISCOVER THE TRUTH
		- WHAT IS REAL
	- things only exist when you look at them
		- things render when you look at them
			- render only what you measure
				- uncertainty principle
		- consciousness
		- object permanence when we are babies 2:11:13
			- yoda: "you must unlearn what you have learned"
	- Local realism is false
		- quantum entanglement
			- whichever one you look at first, the other one is the opposite
			- they react instantaneously faster than light
			- we can only describe probabilities
				- einstein "god doesn't play with dice"
		- space-time is a data structure, an abstraction that helps us survive in the world
	- nick bostrom: simulation theory
		- turtles all the way down
		- not big enough, still in the context of space-time
		- it also assumes that consciousness can arise from programmed creatures
		- let go of space-time at the base of hierarchies to get where physisicsts have gone
	- science: grant me these assumptions 1:13:09
		- there can never be a scientific theory of everything
		- girdle's incompleteness theorem
			- no matter how complicated your theory is, you can always produce a statement that is true but unprovable in your current theory
			- unlimited realm of truth beyond our scientific theories
				- unlimited intelligence
			- reason tells us that logic itself cannot tell us all truths 1:19:58
				- reason is smart enough to tell us its limits
				- logic is consistent: necessarily incomplete. inconsistent logic would be useless
					- theories can either be inconsistent or incomplete
				- but somehow it is still immensely important to make that foray into the unknown
					- the search for truth matters
					- sit in complete silence. let go of reason. see what happens, if you can glimpse the unlimited intelligence.
						- maybe the unlimited intelligence is myself underneath the headset.
		- always assumptions at the base of our understanding
		- minecraft: if we dig all the way down. straight down. can we ever find the truth?
	- Having feet in both realms, the logical and the spirutual is "really what this is all about" 1:21:57
	- Consciousness is more fundamental than space-time 1:24:21
		- understanding is just another babystep toward the inifinite
		- entier physical world of GTA within the headset is made-up. in the consciousness
		- my consciousness creates the world
			- mathmatical model of consciousness
				- one unlimited conscious outside of space and time that can't be modeled
					- it has projections of itself (us onto 4D space-time)
			- maybe the point is to learn to love 1:25:54
				- to realize that everyone is us. it is us in different avatars
				- too romantic
				- why though?
					- our ideas aren't good here
						- need to throw out ideas to say "this is not it"
						- but we need to throw something out to point at it
					- never ending process
						- girdle says we'll always be putting bad pieces on the table
						- every theory, we will eventually discover the limits
							- always "yeah, but there is more"
		- We need a mathematical theory of consciousness outside of space-time 1:30:17
			- is consciousness inside space-time?
				- made by the brain? emergent?
			- Space-time is a trivial data structure *inside* consciousness
				- Consciousness is fundamental
					- how does consciousness project itself into space-time to give us what we understand about the world: quantum field theory
					- deepest thing we found is "decorated permutations"
		- Agency implies a "self" 1:31:36
			- selfless agents can be conscious
			- the self is a story
				- if I forgot my story, who I am, what I've done, I'm still conscious
				- so much emphasis on the story
					- me vs you. I'm smarter, faster, stronger
			- "conscious agents" vs "conscious units"
		- 1:46:22 loops and co-loops
		- 1:57:27 Theory of Conscious Agents
		- 2:03:52 Awareness vs Consciousness
			- "the joy of being is the awareness itself"
- ## Consciousness is Fundamental
	- tags:: [[Mindful Machines]]
	  type:: video
	  published:: false
	- ### Concept
		- consciousness, not space-time is the fundamental aspect of reality
	- ### Thumbnail
	- ### Title
	- ### Script
		- #### Consciousness
			- The bleeding edge of science is hypothesizes that *consciousness* is the fundamental aspect of reality from which the perception of space and time emerge - not the other way around.
			- If this is a simulation, then what are we? What is this self that we...have...or are?
			- Let's dive into some pure speculation now
				- what if we are the singularity? what if it is us?
				- what if we are literally our own god. we are literally the universe trying to experience itself
			- One really effective way to get ChatGPT to give you results you are looking for is to ask it to play a role.
				- You are "this" or "that" now look at this thing.
				- We are asking the artificial intelligence to inhabit an entity for the purpose of...computing something.
			- Blindsight/Echopraxia
			- Philip K. Dick story. God is us.
				- If we entertain this idea, than the god of our universe is...us...us from the future. We are playing the video game of what it was like to live through the dawn of AI.
				- Maybe our consciousness is the only thing that is actually real in that we yearn to give meaning to our experiences
		- #### Enlightenment
			- Nature of Consciousness
				- an intelligence, currently inhabiting the role of every entity
				- time, space, everything about our reality is an illusion
					- a veil pulled over our eyes to blind us from the truth
					- the thing is, in this scenario, we put the veil over our own eyes. we suspended our disbelief so we could play the cool Human 2023 video game
			- I mean, at this point, we're just talking about spirituality.
				- And as I pointed out in my last video, I find it very interesting how all the fields of human endeavors are coming together as we try to understand this new artificial life that we have created.
					- philosphy
					- ethics
					- psychology
					- neuroscience
					- computer science
					- physics
					- spirituality
			- Can we break the rules of the system? Can we break the laws of physics?
				- If we think of god as the thing that created the universe. And if the universe is a computer simulation, then god is a virus.
					- it wouldn't follow the rules of the system and could bend it to its will
				- watch next vid
		- #### Wake Up
			- It's a game. Just relax. Enjoy it. That's why you're here - to experience it.
	- ### Video Description
	- ### Result