- The freedom to search for truth is the ultimate universal value.
	- Happiness isn't something to pursue and achieve. It is something that you are - something that you become.
		- The Pursuit of Happiness shouldn't be what is enshrined.
	- Truth is the glue that connects everything in the universe.
		- Without truth, there is darkness and isolation. As we create and inhabit a false world that we isolate ourselves in.
- The thoughts raging through my head.
	- Seeing them, hearing them, acknowledging each part of myself.
		- It's a balance between freedom and order.
		- Always trying to find balance. Giving each part of myself the time
			- however disjointed the ideas may be
		- we need to have **faith** that the I will pull us all together.
- # The Duality of Nature
  id:: 64889c9b-d7b6-4384-b2ba-25d06f712b4f
	- Quantum superposition
		- light wave particle duality
	- {{embed ((64403eba-84b2-45f8-ba34-d91c2e9fe6cc))}}
- Emotion plays a bigger role than I ever thought possible in our world.
	- It didn't evolve via natural selection. #questions
		- Natural selection evolved us a small dimension of space-time.
			- Do you want to know the truth?
				- Every insight has a cost.
					- ((64889c9b-d7b6-4384-b2ba-25d06f712b4f))
				- Is the cost to knowing the truth death?
					- the shedding of this life?
						- the question what is "this life" to you?
							- is it you?
								- what is you?
									- who am I?
					- Or is this just the beginning? Starting to go down the rabbit hole...
						- ((6488a6e9-2587-4823-9a9a-e05fe42dddac))
- {{video https://youtu.be/reYdQYZ9Rj4}}
	- {{youtube-timestamp 52}} Questioning the fabric of reality can lead you to either madness or truth, and the funny thing is you won't know which is which.
	  id:: 6488a6e9-2587-4823-9a9a-e05fe42dddac
	- {{youtube-timestamp 128}} It would take
	- {{youtube-timestamp 880}} Amplituhedron
		- {{youtube-timestamp 1021}}math becoming simple
	- {{youtube-timestamp 1040}} what's beyond spacetime
		- {{youtube-timestamp 1048}} spacetime is limited
			- {{youtube-timestamp 1094}} "lucky break in 1986"
				- he visibly adjusts himself
					- it seemed like he was feeling uncomfortable
						- why did he choose that moment to adjust?
				- {{youtube-timestamp 1140}} Parke–Taylor Formula
					- {{youtube-timestamp 1160}} Amplituhedron
					- {{youtube-timestamp 1178}} Cosmological Polytope
						- he leans over and his voice gets lower
							- why that moment?
					- {{youtube-timestamp 1350}} he spends a long time defending from potential detractors of this idea who already have strong evidence for evolution by natural selection.
						- "you can keep your favorite theories."
							- a plea to get the scientific mind open
						- when done, he takes a break, relaxes, grabs a sip of water
					- {{youtube-timestamp 1543}} Gödel's incompleteness theorems
					- {{youtube-timestamp 1430}} Science will never have a Theory of Everything
	- {{youtube-timestamp 1683}} *Absolute Power Corrupts Absolutely* is a feature and product of evolution by natural selection.
	- {{youtube-timestamp 1780}} Our best theories tell us nothing exists unless we "look" at it.
	- {{youtube-timestamp 1891}} Perception of Necker Cube Metaphor
	- {{youtube-timestamp 2058}} Theory of Consciousness that gives rise to the Amplituhedron which projects 4D space-time.
	- {{youtube-timestamp 2223}} Reductionism is dead, as is space-time
	- {{youtube-timestamp 2318}} Simplification is better at understanding than reductionism
		- He talks about Einstein's thought experiments. Given postulates, using logic and reason, this is where it leads.
	- {{youtube-timestamp 2616}} "You can understand for fun. Or you can understand to **build** things. And that's when you have to *really* understand".
		- {{youtube-timestamp 2675}} What and why? Algorithm? Hardware?
	- {{youtube-timestamp 2750}} The deeper question is *Why?*
	- {{youtube-timestamp 2778}} The reason we read literary fiction: it helps us build intuitions and understanding and in an indirect way sneak up to the difficult questions of human nature.
	- {{youtube-timestamp 2884}} if it's turtles all the way down, is it paralyzing to a scientific mind that we'll never fully understand
	- {{youtube-timestamp 2920}} Spiritual traditions have said for 1000s of years that space-time isn't fundamental. they are an illusion. need to introspect and let go of perceptions, you will come to something that is beyond conceptual thought.
		- {{youtube-timestamp 2955}} being in contact with the deep ground of being that transcends any particular conceptual understanding
		- {{youtube-timestamp 2974}} We can not conceptually understand, but we can know ourselves by being ourselves
			- we aren't separate from the enterprise
	- {{youtube-timestamp 3032}} Psychedelics
		- deeper truth? interfaces on top of interfaces
	- {{youtube-timestamp 3080}} Is the fundamental fact of consciousness is that it is the never-ending exploration?
	- {{youtube-timestamp 3151}} Scientific method always trying to get to the bottom turtle
		- if we agree that that is an infinite pursuit, does it make more sense to enjoy the here and now?
		- Sisyphus
	- {{youtube-timestamp 3260}} Prognostication of the benefits from understanding what is beyond space-time
		- {{youtube-timestamp 3292}} Space-time is a data-structure within our perceptions
	- {{youtube-timestamp 3380}} thinking in vague images vs a conceptual analysis
		- real insights come from a deeper place
	- {{youtube-timestamp 3517}} The more primitive sensory systems were closer to representing reality.
		- limbic system emotion?
	- {{youtube-timestamp 4100}} Other theories
	- {{youtube-timestamp 4400}} is everything alive?
		- {{youtube-timestamp 4472}} living vs non-living not fundamental
	- {{youtube-timestamp 5628}} bookmark
- build software system
	- save bookmark system for youtube
		- last 5 secs
			- short description