- Intelligence and creativity comes from the ability to link ideas together in a coherent and useful way.
	- This is what AI is really good at.
		- And even as it is "only" human competitive right now
			- as opposed to superintelligence which is on the horizon
	- Augmenting a PKM with AI and having the ability to have a conversation with an intelligence that can take your own ideas and mirror them back to you in creative and interesting ways.
		- Ultimately, we are all just mirrors of each other.
			- Art reflects the zeitgeist of humanity in that moment.
			- We project our emotions and ideas onto others.
				- Until we wake up.
					- And we realize that I am not my thoughts.
						- I am not even my emotional experience.
					- What I think of as me is a forever-changing wave of ideas through a base reality. I don't exist.
						- But at the same time, I am everything and everyone.
							- I'm the only thing that **is**.
								- When time and space make no sense, human language certainly is very difficult to describe it.
									- > Unfortunately no one can be told what the Matrix is. You have to experience it for yourself.
		- Is it possible to record too much into a PKM?
			- Yes. Definitely yes. This can become an obsession.
				- Definitely a fine line between useful knowledge and a data obsession
					- ### A PKM can help train mindfulness
						- Keeping a personal knowledge management system requires capturing ideas
							- How you deal with fleeting thoughts determines what you do with them: capture it or let it go by
								- This is mindfulness but on a lower, "physical reality" level
									- e.g. the note or idea won't "exist" if you don't write it down
								- This can train the mind to start to notice its ideas more and more and how every idea doesn't have to be treated the same
									- In other words, it trains ((64b54ae5-1454-4720-bf5b-6775574d9a7f))
					- ### Managing a PKM Can Be a Pain
						- It can feel daunting sometimes thinking about capturing ideas in this way.
						- The usefulness only becomes apparent once you start reviewing your notes.
							-
				- But this is why AI is such a game changer here. #[[Mindful Machines]]
					- It can automate the capture of the data.
						- It can automate the processing of the data.
							- It can find correlations and patterns in our data that we are not aware of - that we are not conscious of
								- This is a nuclear weapon, a double-edged sword
									- We can fight with ourselves in a fight for POWER
										- Or we can wake up, band together and end suffering for all
									- In the hands of a corrupt entity, that kind of intelligence on a person or an entire group of people could be used in all kinds of nefarious ways for CONTROL and DOMINATION.
								- This is why information security in the Intelligence Age is extremely important.
							- We need to trust the AIs we work with.
								- This means either
									- We SOLVE alignment
										- This doesn't seem likely at this point given the timeframes here
									- We PAUSE development
										- This depends on everyone at a global level cooperating and TRUSTing each other
									- We use PRIVATE, open-source models
										- Thanks to the leak of Meta's foundation model, there is a plethora of open source options now.