## Boost Copywriting Skills
	- https://www.youtube.com/post/UgkxfNtqmd_ucYZfdH7cM1BEPM-Yt93-jIKN
	- ### Mental Title Rewriting
		- Whenever you see a great YouTube title, mentally rewrite it to make it better. This exercise helps you think creatively and critically about what makes an ad effective.
	- ### Trim, Trim, Trim
		- The goal of copywriting is to transmit information from one brain to another. Therefore, if you can make that information shorter and more concise, it's even better. Trim down your copy to its most essential parts to make it easier to understand and remember.
	- ### Keep a [[Swipe File]]
		- A swipe file is a collection of ads or pieces of copy that you find effective. It can be digital or physical. Whenever you see an ad or title that makes you click, sign up, laugh, or say "whoa", save it to your swipe file for future inspiration.
	- ### State the Benefits, Not the Features
		- When writing copy, focus on the benefits of the video, product or service, not just its features.
	- ### Copy Amazing Copy
		- If you want to learn to write like someone, physically start copying their writings. This exercise helps you notice how they use punctuation, space their words, and structure their sentences.
	- ### Push the Boundaries
		- Don't play it safe when it comes to writing. Make your writing more interesting and fun to read by pushing the boundaries of what feels “safe”
	- ### Read Your Copy Out Loud
		- Reading your copy out loud can help you determine if it translates well to speaking. If it sounds boring when read out loud, you might need to make it more engaging.
	- ### Practice, Practice, Practice
		- Learning to write copy that stops people in their tracks is a skill, you need to practice it daily to hit the level that’ll impact your channel and business.