---
created: 2024-06-03 18:28
aliases: 
tags:
  - LearningIT
  - bud🌿
links:
---

link: [[Software Testing]]

# Functional Testing

## Overview

Functional Testing is a type of software testing that validates the software system against functional requirements/specifications. The purpose of functional testing is to ensure that the application behaves as expected and that all functionalities work according to the requirements. This type of testing focuses on the output generated by the system in response to selected inputs and execution conditions.

## Key Concepts

- **Requirement-Based**: Ensures the system operates according to the specified requirements.
- **Black-Box Testing**: Tests the functionality of the application without knowing the internal code structure.
- **User Perspective**: Simulates user scenarios to validate system behavior.

## How Functional Testing Works

1. **Identify Functions**: Determine the functions that the software is expected to perform.
2. **Create Test Cases**: Develop test cases based on functional requirements and user scenarios.
3. **Execute Tests**: Run the test cases and capture the results.
4. **Compare Results**: Compare the actual output with the expected output to determine if the functionality is working correctly.
5. **Report Bugs**: Log any discrepancies or bugs found during testing.

## Types of Functional Testing

- **[[Unit Testing]]**: Testing individual components or units of code.
- **[[Integration Testing]]**: Testing the interaction between integrated units or components.
- **System Testing**: Testing the complete and integrated software system.
- **Acceptance Testing**: Testing the software to ensure it meets the user's requirements and is ready for deployment.